In the post controller we have a simple counter that counts the users that have visited the page at
certain time namely in the last minute.
So let's imagine that we might want to reuse that code for example in the user controller to also show
how many people are currently seeing our profile.
So this now makes it very hard to make it reusable as this code is directly inside the post controller.
Now what we can do with this is we can create a specific service a plain peach B class that can contain
this functionality which we then can reuse in both of those controllers and possibly even more in the
future.
So what we can do with that is we can create a new service so let's go ahead and create a new namespace
inside the app folder and call it services and then inside this namespace create a new counter BHP file
so let's give it BGP starting tag and declare a class code counter.
Of course we also have the namespace.
So this would be namespace up slash services.
Now let's think what this counter does need.
So its basic purpose is to read some data from the cache under our specific key.
So it needs a unique key which we have here as a blog post idea and in the user we might need something
else.
So definitely this needs some methods.
So the method could be public function increment as we wants to increment the counter and then return
its value so it accepts a string.
Key
and actually since we sometimes wants to use tags it might accept some tax to make it easier to flash
the cash later.
So another parameter is tags which might be optional so we set it by default to law.
And this increment method has to return an integer because we actually want the number of users on the
page currently.
Now what we can do is we can copy all this code from the post controller so let's do that now we can't
even cut that and paste everything inside the increment method.
What we only need to do is to import the cash for sale here right now.
So make sure you have this import.
Add that up and now instead of having this blog post I.D. stored inside our service let's actually use
that here.
So now what we will do is we can create a new counter class directly by just instantiating a new counter
from app services counter.
Notice that you will need this import here.
So let's go to the show method and now counter can call that incremental method which accepts a key
so we can paste that blog post idea.
That would be the key and also it accepts stock.
So we want this to be blog post
like that.
OK.
So now from our common class we can remove something so definitely the counter key is no more blog post
idea.
It has to depend on the past value so the past value is key.
It's also the same in this case and also we should use tax but well let's leave it like that for a second
because well this might also be optional.
We'll get to that later.
So we used just the blog post doc just for now.
OK.
Finally we of course have to return the current counter value which happens to sit inside this counter
variable so after those changes now we can use the counter on post controller and user controller easily.
So let's also add this to user controller.
Let's create a new instance of the counter so new counter
so let's make sure we have an import.
Okay so scroll to the top see if you have this import.
If not you need to it and to the view we can now pass the result of the increment.
But specifically for our user profile so let's also call this view variable counter and called counter
increment.
The key would be.
Now then let's say a user
with a user I.D..
So this is specific to a particular user account and we want to use tax.
Now let's open the view by left clicking it with the Alt key and display our simple message of how many
users are currently viewing this profile so currently viewed by counter other users.
Now well let's close the paragraph and let's try to refresh this page so you can see in Spanish that
this is now being viewed by one person.
But if you will go to your own profile you can also see that it's being viewed by one person if you
will open that in the new incognito window.
Of course you have to log in first so it apparently works if you will go to the blog post.
You can also see that the counter works.
So what we have created is called a service.
So we created a class that can perform some some operations for us and we can configure what it does
and how he does it by providing a key as a string parameter and then optionally tags.
We will get to that later.
Don't worry about it right now.
So the problem.
The only problem we have is that every time we need the counter we created well explicitly.
So we have to instantiate this class using new and well this might be a problem whenever we would like
to make the counter more configurable.
And also when the counter would also would need some dependencies on itself.
So actually counter might need some other classes.
Now it depends on the for sale.
So it's easier to use for seats.
We do not have to declare what counter needs we do not have to add a constructor pass anything to it.
It is just fetching what it needs by itself.
But in the next lecture we'll actually see how we can pass some parameters to the counter and reuse
it having the same settings and the same other dependencies by using the dependency injection.
And I think called a service container.